The creation1 In the beginning he created 'Elohim the heavens and the earth. 2 But the earth became desolate and empty, and there was darkness over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God hovered over the face of the waters. 3 Then he said 'Elohim: Let there be light. And there was light. 4 And he saw 'Elohim that the light was good, and 'Elohim made separation between light and darkness. 5 And he called 'Elohim called the light day and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning: Day one. 6 And he said 'Elohim: Let there be expansion in the midst of the waters and separate the waters from the waters. 7 And he made 'Elohim the expansion, and established separation between the waters that were under the expansion and the waters that were above the expansion. And it was like that. 8 And he called 'Elohim to the expansion heavens. And there was evening and there was morning: Second day. 9 And he said 'Elohim: Gather the waters from under the heavens in one place, and show yourself dry. And it was like that. 10 And to the dry he called 'Elohim land, and to the gathering of the waters he called seas. And he saw 'Elohim who was fine. 11 Then he said 'Elohim: Let the earth produce vegetation: grass that makes seed germinate, a fruit tree that bears fruit on the earth according to its kind, whose seed is in it. And it was like that. 12 And the earth caused vegetation to sprout: grass that makes seed germinate according to its kind, and a tree that bears fruit, whose seed is in it, according to its kind. And he saw 'Elohim who was fine. 13 And there was evening and there was morning: Third day. 14 And he said 'Elohim: Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to differentiate between day and night, and serve for signs, and for the seasons, and for days and years, 15 and let them be through luminaries in the expansion of the heavens to shine on the earth. And it was like that. 16 And he made 'Elohim the two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, and the stars.

The man
26 Then he said 'Elohim: Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness, and exercise dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over the cattle, over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that crawls on the land. 27 And Elohim created man in his image, in the image of 'Elohim created him, male and female he created them. 28 Then 'Elohim blessed them; and said to them 'Elohim: Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, dominate over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves on the earth. 29 And he said 'Elohim: Behold, I have given you every herb that produces seed that is on the face of the whole earth, and every tree in which there is fruit and that produces seed will be food for you. 30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to every creeping thing on the earth, in which there is life, every green grass will be food for them. And it was like that. 31 And he saw 'Elohim everything he had done, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning: The sixth day.